Prostetnic Vogon Jeltz was a Vogon Civil Servant and the commander of the Vogon Constructor Fleet which was sent to destroy the planet Earth. Jeltz did not like hitchhikers. He also vary rarely smiled but instead loved to be angry, and quite frequently wanted things to go wrong just so he could be angry.

He also wrote excellent poetry, at least in comparison to other Vogon poetry. He wrote to put his mean, callous, heartless exterior into sharp relief.Description
Jeltz had an large and unpleasant green body, a high domed nose and a small piggy forehead. He had dark green rubbery skin thick enough to be involved in Vogon politics and waterproof enough to survive a thousand feet underwater with no ill effects.From chapter 5 of the book The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.Biography
thumb|248x248px|Jeltz reading his poetry to Arthur and Ford.Once Jeltz entered the Vogon Civil Service, he held a busy schedule. He was chosen by Gag Halfrunt as the Vogon to lead the Constructor Fleet on its scheduled demolition of Earth, to make way for a hyperspace bypass. Just before demolishing the Earth, Jeltz had an unhappy love affair.

When the human Arthur Dent and Betelgeusian Ford Prefect used the Electronic Thumb to hitchhike onto Vogon flagship, Jeltz sent out a search party to find the hitchhikers. Once found, Jeltz read a fetid little passage of poetry to them. He ignored their attempts to save themselves and instead ordered for them to be thrown out of the third airlock.  Radio 
 Primary Phase 
 Fit the Second
 Secondary Phase 
 Fit the Ninth

 Tertiary Phase 
 Fit the Thirteenth

 Quandary Phase 
 Fit the Nineteenth
 Fit the Twenty First

 Quintessential Phase 
 Fit the Twenty-Fourth
 Fit the Twenty-Fifth
 Fit the Twenty-Sixth

 Hexagonal Phase 
 Fit the Twenty-Eighth
 Fit the Twenty-Ninth Primary Phase 
 Fit the Second Secondary Phase 
 Fit the Ninth Tertiary Phase 
 Fit the Thirteenth Quandary Phase 
 Fit the Nineteenth
 Fit the Twenty First Quintessential Phase 
 Fit the Twenty-Fourth
 Fit the Twenty-Fifth
 Fit the Twenty-Sixth Hexagonal Phase 
 Fit the Twenty-Eighth
 Fit the Twenty-Ninth Book 
 The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
 The Restaurant at the End of the Universe
 Mostly Harmless
 And Another Thing... Television 
 Episode 1
 Episode 2 Video game 
 The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy Film 
 The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy