 The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy comic books were adaptions of Douglas Adams' original stories, published by DC Comics in 1993, in conjunction with Byron Preiss Visual Publications.  

The first comic stories (The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy Volume 1) consisted of a Prestige format, limited series, three-part comic book adaptation of the novelisation of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. This was followed by other three-part adaptations of The Restaurant at the End of the Universe (Restaurant at the End of the Universe Volume 1) in 1994, and Life, the Universe and Everything (Life, The Universe and Everything Volume 1) in 1996. 

Douglas Adams' the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy: the Authorized Collection was a deluxe edition of Volume 1 of the comic books published in 1997, containing photographs, original artwork, and memorabilia. Art from the comic books was used for a series of trading cards/collectors' cards which were released in 1994. Issues 

 Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy Volume 1 
 Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy Volume 1 #1
 Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy Volume 1 #2
 Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy Volume 1 #3

 Restaurant at the End of the Universe Volume 1 
 Restaurant at the End of the Universe Volume 1 #1
 Restaurant at the End of the Universe Volume 1 #2
 Restaurant at the End of the Universe Volume 1 #3

 Life, The Universe and Everything Volume 1 
 Life, The Universe and Everything Volume 1 #1
 Life, The Universe and Everything Volume 1 #2
 Life, The Universe and Everything Volume 1 #3 Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy Volume 1 
 Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy Volume 1 #1
 Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy Volume 1 #2
 Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy Volume 1 #3 Restaurant at the End of the Universe Volume 1 
 Restaurant at the End of the Universe Volume 1 #1
 Restaurant at the End of the Universe Volume 1 #2
 Restaurant at the End of the Universe Volume 1 #3 Life, The Universe and Everything Volume 1 
 Life, The Universe and Everything Volume 1 #1
 Life, The Universe and Everything Volume 1 #2
 Life, The Universe and Everything Volume 1 #3 Official description 

 The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy: the Authorized Collection: 
Grabbed from Earth moments before an extraterrestrial construction crew that is building an intergalactic highway destroys it, Arthur Dent and his alien friend Ford Prefect embark on a cosmos-spanning misadventure of satire and absurdity. In this classic science fiction comedy, the two hapless compatriots travel the galaxy in search of meaning for their new, planetless existence. Wreaking havoc and creating chaos wherever they go, Arthur and Ford provide a hilarious metaphorical look at high culture, political bureaucracy, and organized religion. The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy: the Authorized Collection: 
Grabbed from Earth moments before an extraterrestrial construction crew that is building an intergalactic highway destroys it, Arthur Dent and his alien friend Ford Prefect embark on a cosmos-spanning misadventure of satire and absurdity. In this classic science fiction comedy, the two hapless compatriots travel the galaxy in search of meaning for their new, planetless existence. Wreaking havoc and creating chaos wherever they go, Arthur and Ford provide a hilarious metaphorical look at high culture, political bureaucracy, and organized religion. Gallery 
Category:Versions of Hitchhiker's
Category:Books
Category:Related Books
Category:Hitchhiker's comics